[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We didn't have a very
developed ideology or vision
of what life would be
like on the island.
We just were taking
it one step at a time,
figuring it out
as we went along,
figuring that we could figure
it out as we went along.
I remember, when we planted the
garden, there were deer around.
And we knew that they would
eat the vegetables if we didn't
create some kind of fence.
But we didn't have any
materials to build a fence with.
So I improvised.
And we got cardboard boxes.
And we found some
branches and cut
them, that were reasonably
straight and reasonably
thick to be the right height.
And I got some cement
and put the branch
into the box of rocks, and
the rocks would hold it,
and then poured cement into
the box, and it hardened.
And now we have a fence post.
And we got some chicken wire,
and we strung it around.
This is how we built
our garden fence.
And it did keep the deer out.
It fell down a lot.
And we had to keep
always patching it.
But one day, there was a
ranch several miles away,
and their cows just
grazed on the island.
And they had found
their way to us.
It's the only time it ever
happened that these cows showed
up at our property.
But there they were,
a bunch of cows.
And I was amazed.
And then they start, and they
just go right through the fence.
They just push it right over.
And they gobble up the kale.
And that's our vegetables,
we depend on this.
And they're eating so fast,
all of our vegetables.
And I'm angry about it.
I'm like, get away from
our vegetables, you know.
And so I start yelling at them.
And it doesn't do any good.
They just ignore me.
So I get the only weapon
I have, which is a broom.
And I start waving it around
in the air and yelling,
and they just totally ignore me.
They look up,
[MAKES MUNCHING SOUNDS],
moo, you know.
And then I think,
OK, I've had enough.
I've got to do
something about this.
I've got to protect
our food here.
And so I take the broom, and
I throw it at one of the cows.
I miss him.
It lands right at
his or her feet.
And the cow looks at me and
starts eating the broom.
Because it's a straw broom.
And I'm like, so much for
my protecting the homestead.
I'm just giving them more food.
And it devoured the broom.
And it was this feeling
of, my goodness,
we lost a lot of vegetables
in a few minutes.
It happened so fast.
And eventually, they moved on.
But there we were,
left with bare stalks.
And it was a real imprint on us.
And it was a loss.
I mean, we would have liked
to have eaten those vegetables
ourselves very much.
We got to work right away to
grow the things and all that
and restore the fence.
But we knew it couldn't--
defense that we could make
wouldn't keep out cows
if they wanted back in.
Fortunately, they
never did come back.
It was one of my
first tastes of how
rapacious cattle can be on the
land, how much they can eat,
how quickly.
I think of them as peaceful
animals, for the most part.
But they do eat a lot.
They're big creatures.
Now I know that
when we feed cattle,
it takes many, many pounds of
grain to make a pound of beef.
And it's a really
inefficient way
to go about feeding ourselves
and feeding the world.
We were committed
to eating plants.
And we didn't have guns.
And I wouldn't have
killed a deer to eat it.
I suppose if the alternative
was starving, literally,
I might have.
But the commitment was to do it
in a different way, and we did.
There was only one
exception to that.
One day, we were hitchhiking.
And this guy picked us up
and asked where we live
and what we do.
You know, you talk with people.
Somehow, it came up that
we were vegetarians.
I don't remember the
way the conversation got
to that, somehow it did.
And he could tell we were poor,
by the way we were dressed,
and where we lived,
and so forth.
And he happened to
be a chicken farmer.
He had a bunch of chickens.
And he was going to give us
a ride to a certain spot.
And it so happens he was just
going to drive by his place.
And he said, do you
know what, I want
to give you guys some chickens.
I think his
assumption, we couldn't
afford-- we only ate it
because we couldn't afford
it was why we didn't eat it.
And so he stops, and he goes
out, and he grabs a chicken
and breaks its neck, and
another one and breaks its neck,
and brings it and
gives it to us.
And I felt his generosity.
And I wanted to honor that.
I didn't know what to do
with a dead chicken, how you
convert that into what you eat.
What do you do with the
feathers, what do you do?
But he told us what to do.
You hang it up for
a while, and then
how you pull the
feathers out and stuff.
And we thought about it,
and we decided, well,
this has come into our
life in a good way.
This guy's coming
from a good place.
These birds are already dead.
We didn't ask him to do that.
Let's see what would happen
if we go ahead and eat them.
So we did.
We ate those two chickens.
But that was the
only animal food
that we ate during those
years on the island.
We just believed
in trying to live
with plants as our nutrients.
And that's what we did.
We didn't have enough
land to have animals.
We didn't want to have animals.
We grew our garden and bought
our rice, and wheat, and beans,
and sometimes potatoes.
And I have to say, Thoreau, you
know, I had read Walden Pond,
but I missed the part
about he only did it
for three or four months.
And I missed the part about
that he would go into town
and get some of his food.
And I just missed that.
And I thought we were going
to do what Thoreau did.
But it turns out, that's
not what Thoreau did.
And it turns out that
it's a lot harder
than we thought it would be.
And when you think
about it, and you think,
what did you think
it was going to be?
We didn't know enough to
realize how difficult it
was going to be.
So we waltzed right into it, la
dee da, thinking, well, we'll
figure it out.
And it turned out to be a
lot harder than we expected,
and a lot more work, and a lot
more difficult and challenging.
And we did mostly figure it out.
I mean, we survived.
And we grew inwardly
through the process.
And honestly, given
the way I'd grown up,
with maids, and room service,
and first class everything,
country clubs, it was healing.
It was healing for me.
I can't say for Deo if it
was that healing for her.
But for me, I wasn't any
longer the spoiled rich kid.
And that mattered to me.
I needed to prove to
myself that I wasn't just
who my parents wanted me to be
and who I was in their world.
I wanted to find out
who else I could be
and what else there was.
It was difficult. And
I don't recommend it.
And if people hear my story and
think, oh, that sounds great.
I'm going to do that.
I want to tell them,
take a deep breath,
take a series of
really deep breaths.
Quiet your mind.
Do you really?
Because it is hard.
I'm not saying don't.
But I am saying don't think
it's going to be a piece of cake
because it isn't.
Growing food is hard work.
And I learned that.
And I have great respect for
the people that grow our food.
I saw how hard it is,
how difficult it is.
And even though I'm
all about organics,
I saw what happens
when pests come.
And I see the temptation to
spray, and get rid of the pests,
and kill them.
And the crop grows and--
so it seems like magic.
It's the easiest way sometimes.
We always were organic.
We lost some crops to pests.
We found workarounds.
We learned about companion
planting, and crop rotation,
and ways to lessen the loss.
But it's hard work to grow food.
And I will never forget that.
And I'm always grateful.
There's not a meal that
I eat that I don't think
with gratitude for the
people that grew this food,
and the people that drove the
trucks that transported it,
and the people that
worked in the fields,
and everybody
involved, that we can
have the blessing of being fed.
And I don't take any
of that for granted.
And I think a lot of us do.
We think food comes
from the store.
And we think meat
comes from the store.
It doesn't.
It comes through the
store, but it comes
from an animal who had a life.
There was a farmer.
There was a rancher.
There were workers.
Everybody's working their
butt off so we can eat.
The least I think we
can do is be grateful
and try to live a life fueled
by the energy of that food.
That's respectful to the
people who make it possible
for us to eat and to live.